# It's Week 5. Seriously.

See yesterday where we finish Monday's example. That was the first 2.5 hours of class.

# Third Party APIs

We talked about these a bit in week 1. We looked at reddit's API, the wordnik API. We're now at the point when you need to start thinking about these for our capstones and group projects.

APIs have credentials, similar to tokens. Some are private, some are public. If you have a private key, NEVER store it on any of your commits and push to github. EVER. Even if your app doesn't have the token, your commit history is on Github. Bots scrape for this. Don't get $25k charged to your Amazon account.

We're going to look at some APIs here `https://github.com/toddmotto/public-apis`.

APIs have 3 different authorization
* No authorization
  * ... Anyone can access
* apiKey
  * There's a (simple?) process that we're going to go through in a second
* OAuth
  * More involved. This is what 

"Endpoints" are the api name for routes.

If you're thinking about an API key, some take 3 weeks to get. Worst Josh has seen is 6 weeks. Request access asap, and _do not store it in any file you are tracking with git_. 

## Going through an example with apiKey

Create a news app:

```bash
rails new news_app
rails g controller api/articles
rake db:create
rails s
```

In `routes.rb`:

```ruby
get '/articles' => 'articles#index'
```

In `articles_controller.rb`:

Note that the 'http' gem doesn't come standard with rails, but the version that Josh gave us includes it in the gemfile.

Also note.  **DO NOT GIT ADD OR USE GIT IN ANY WAY DURING THIS BECAUSE IT INCLUDES THE PRIVATE API KEY**

```ruby
def index
  # response = HTTP.get("https://newsapi.org/v2/everything?q=bitcoin&from=2019-01-05&sortBy=publishedAt&apiKey=API_KEY")
  ### Let's genralize this from bitcoin, so that we can search for what we want.
  search_term = params[:search]
  response = HTTP.get("https://newsapi.org/v2/everything?q=#{ search_term }&from=2019-01-05&sortBy=publishedAt&apiKey=API_KEY")
  render json: response.parse
end
```

Head on over to `localhost:3000/api/articles`. It shows us the news info it brought back. 

And if we go to `api/articles?search=lunarnewyar` to search for articles that reference the lunar new year.

How to secure an api key so it **never goes to github**. See the cheatsheet Josh sent out. Then do the things it says to do.

Note that it's easy to put something on the ignore list, but difficult to get it off, because git remembers what it's supposed to ignore. 

```ruby

```

```bash

```

Next, head on over to 

```ruby

```

