# W01D05 Introduction to APIs

## Class Variables

Class variables, written `@@variable_name`, are accessible throughout a class. They don't come up often, but are important to know. Let's go through an example of using a counter to track the number of instances created, using a new class, Sheep.

You can track the number of sheep created without using a class variable, and then by assigning a unique id to each sheep instance, manually.

```ruby
class Sheep
  def initialize(count)
    @id = count
  end
end

# counting sheep...

Sheep.new(1)
Sheep.new(2)
p Sheep.new(3)
```

By printing the last Sheep instance, you can see that it correctly identifies itself as the third sheep created:

```
#<Sheep:0x00007fa7fd9a88d0 @id=3>
```

Another way to accomplish this is by using a class variable.

```ruby
class Sheep 
  @@count = 0
  def initialize
    @@count += 1
    @id = @@count
  end
end

# counting sheep...

p Sheep.new
p Sheep.new
p Sheep.new
```

The result correctly tracks the sheep:

```
#<Sheep:0x00007f96c4938a70 @id=1>
#<Sheep:0x00007f96c4938890 @id=2>
#<Sheep:0x00007f96c49387a0 @id=3>
```

The only problem is that we can't access the class variable to know how many Sheep have been created. We can do so by adding a class method:

```ruby
class Sheep 
  @@count = 0
  def initialize
    @@count += 1
    @id = @@count
  end

  def self.how_many                         
    puts "There are #{@@count} sheep."
  end
end

# counting sheep...

sheep_1 = Sheep.new
sheep_2 = Sheep.new
sheep_3 = Sheep.new
Sheep.how_many
```

Calling the class method correctly identified how many Sheep had been created:

```
There are 3 sheep.
```
Note that we cannot call a class method on a specific instance of Sheep. If we had written `sheep_1.how_many`, we would have received a fatal error.


## Private Methods

Situations can arise when you want to use a method in calculations, but not reveal it's data to the user of your program. Let's say you wanted the user to be able to tell whether or not a sheep was awake, which is calculated based the sheep's sleep percentage, which ranges from 1–100. You can introduce the keyword `private` into your class, which will hide anything below that keyword from the user. The method can still be used above the private keyword. Here, we use it to determine whether the sheep is awake or not (if its `awake_percentage > 50`.) You can also use private methods to direct users away from unhelpful or misleading information.

```ruby 
class Sheep
  def initialize
    @awake_percentage = rand(1..100)
  end

  def is_awake?
    awake_percentage > 49
  end

  private                        # anything below this line is private

  def awake_percentage
    @awake_percentage            
  end                            
end


# p Sheep.new.awake_percentage      # Because this is private, running this command errs out.

sheep = Sheep.new
p sheep.is_awake?
```

This will either return `true` or `false`. 

## Introduction to APIs